+++
title = "Екклесиаст - Холод"

date = 2021-01-21

[taxonomies]
tags = ["doom", "death metal", "metal"]
categories = ["Album"]
release-year = ["2005"]
authors = ["masuksa"]
+++

I've discovered recently **Екклесиаст** (Ecclesiastes in english) by pure chance, with their album *Холод* (Cold in English).
They're a russian death/doom band from Nizhny Novgorod.
As it is a small band, there aren't many information available on the web about them.
The band was founded in 1994, released their last album in 2008 and is (according to [Metal Archives](https://www.metal-archives.com/bands/%D0%95%D0%BA%D0%BA%D0%BB%D0%B5%D1%81%D0%B8%D0%B0%D1%81%D1%82/14842) still active though.
It seems they are a christian metal band, as their name suggest.
However, I haven't tried translating the lyrics and I do not know how much it is part of their music.

Talking to the music, this album features both some accoustic and clean vocals (from the main singer, Alexandr Senin and a guest, Luba Medvedeva), and some raw distorted electric guitar with growls.
I find it always interesting to have both on one album, as it helps change the pace and the sound.
Микрокосм is teh fastest song here, which surprised me after a very doomy beginning.
The whole album is interesting, and the influences are diverse.
However, this isn't enough to make this band stand out much.
They are not helped by the fact that although the production is correct, it is not exceptionnal.

Overall, even though you may prefer more established doom bands, this album is enjoyable, and I'm happy to have stumbled on it.

<iframe style="border: 0; width: 400px; height: 472px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=755958181/size=large/bgcol=333333/linkcol=ffffff/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://ekklesiast.bandcamp.com/album/cold">Cold (Холод) by Ekklesiast (Екклесиаст)</a></iframe>

*The album was reedited in December 2020 and is available at the label's online shop : [Solitude Prod.](https://solitude-prod.com/releases/solitude-productions/ekklesiast-ekklesiast-holod-cold-15th-anniversary-remix/).*
*Both the old version that I listened to and the new mix are available on the group's Bandcamp page.*

